---
title: 'Cerebral Edema Detection Daily Updates'
date: 2022-08-22
permalink: /cerebralEdemaDetection/2022/08/blog-post-2/
---
# 2022 August 30
- Completed CITI and HIPAA Certifications
- Working on https://johnmuschelli.com/process_head_ct/example/# with lung images
- ichseg package is not working for stripping. Trying to find an alternative around that.
- Could not find any brain CT images dataset which is in DICOM format

# 2022 August 29
- Explored datasets.
- Explored DICOM and NIFTI images.
- Schedule a call with Mehak to learn more about the dicom to nifti conversion.
- Following the article : https://johnmuschelli.com/process_head_ct/example/#
- Do not have access to the TCIA file, therefore looking for some other brain CT image datasets.
- Explored Nibabel
- Next steps : Finding brain CT images.

# 2022 August 26
- No updates in the interest of ARDS paper.
- Next steps : data exploration and starting pipeline.

# 2022 August 25
- Did the literature survey on the following :
  - Automated medical image segmentation techniques
  - Application of Machine Learning to Automated Analysis of Cerebral Edema in Large Cohorts of Ischemic Stroke Patients
  - Quantitative Serial CT Imaging-Derived
    Features Improve Prediction of Malignant
    Cerebral Edema after Ischemic Stroke
  - Enhanced Detection of Edema in Malignant Anterior
    Circulation Stroke (EDEMA) Score
    A Risk Prediction Tool
- Thought around ways to achieve segmentation
- Prepared slides for presentation
- Documented the details here : https://ashwinpathak20.github.io/cerebralEdemaDetection/2022/08/blog-post-1
- Need to explore the dataset to propose the approaches.
- Next steps :
  - Test the ways on publicly available datasets.

# 2022 August 24
- Did the literature survey on the following :
  - Medical Image Segmentation: A Review
  - Intensity population based unsupervised hemorrhage segmentation from brain CT images
  - Multi-view fusion segmentation for brain glioma on CT images
  - Accelerating Prediction of Malignant
    Cerebral Edema After Ischemic Stroke
    with Automated Image Analysis and Explainable
    Neural Networks
- Documented the details here : https://ashwinpathak20.github.io/cerebralEdemaDetection/2022/08/blog-post-1
- Need to explore the dataset to propose the approaches.
- Next steps : 
  - Read the previous citations for the edema after ischemic stroke papers.
  - Figure out detection target for CT images.

# 2022 August 23 
- Did the literature survey on the following :
  - CT Head Interpretation
  - Intracranial Hemorrhage Detection by 3D Voxel Segmentation on Brain CT Images
  - Deep Learning for Hemorrhagic Lesion Detection and Segmentation on Brain CT Images
  - Autoencoders for unsupervised anomaly segmentation in brain MR
    images: A comparative study
- Documented the details here : https://ashwinpathak20.github.io/cerebralEdemaDetection/2022/08/blog-post-1
- Need to explore the dataset to propose the approaches.