---
title: 'GSOC 2017 - Proposal and basic structure of API'
date: 2017-06-7
permalink: /posts/2017/06/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - GSOC 2017
  - numerical differentiation
  - Scipy
  - Python 
---

This is the basic outline of the design of the scipy.diff module. I have thoroughly investigated the functioning of statsmodels and numdifftools. Along with it, scipy.misc.derivative has also been looked at. In scipy.diff I propose to have adaptations from numdifftools and statsmodels majorly due to their accurate results, sophisiticated techniques of computation and ease of accessibility. 

* ### Platform for coding :
   As the base code of scipy is present in github and due to the wide usablitiy and easy to use features, I have planned to do the coding of the module in gitub under my forked scipy repository.
   
* ### Numerical Differentiation :
  For numerical differentiation, I will use the finite difference method along with Richardson extrapolation for better accuracy. Complex step method approximation will also be implemented at the latter part of the summer. 
  
  I have decided to implement the following:
  
    - Derivative
    - Gradient
    - Jacobian
    - Hessian
    - Hessdiag
    
* ### Statsmodels
  Statsmodels provide a faster amaths innd accurate results for the numerical differentiation for first differences. It also computes the derivatives using complex-step derivative approximations. The code is very simple and easy to understand. However, it is not modular and contains no classes which is the reason why it has to be refactored. The default method is forward differences which I think should be changed to central due to the higher accuracy of central method.
  However, there is a concern related to the analyticity of a function while computing the numerical derivatives using complex steps. This issue needs to be discussed with the mentors and get suggestions from.
  Statsmodels can be used to compute the Derivative, Gradient, Jacobian and Hessian.
